Host Package 
-------------

Download talaria_two_dual_stack host package provided by InnoPhase IoT.

**Package Contents:**

The package includes talaria_two_dual_stack_vx.y folder (Path:
*talaria_two_dual_stack\\talaria_two_dual_stack_vx.y*).

**Note**: x and y in *vx.y* refers to the package release version.

The talaria_two_dual_stack_vx.y folder contains the following:

1. Quick Start Guide: This document

2. apps

Contains the optional binary images of common applications like iPerf.
These applications can be executed once the Dual-Stack solution is up
and running.

3. doc

Contains documents which can be referred to for evaluating and working
with the Dual-Stack solution:

a. firmware-upgrade-via-serial: Contains the Readme to flash the
   firmware upgrade related files to Talaria TWO

b. Release notes

c. Talaria TWO Host API Reference Guide

d. Dual-Stack User Guide

e. Example applications for Dual-Stack

f. INP3201 schematics – MCU bypass and with Low Power MCU

g. Hardware Guide

h. MCU Firmware Flashing

i. AWS Kinesis Video Streaming Quick Start Guide

4. dual-stack

Contains the Dual-Stack solutions’ software components. It also includes
an example code to demonstrate custom logic on top of Dual-Stack
solution to communicate with the Talaria TWO Wi-Fi module.

5. patch

Contains the patch files for the kernel and/or U-boot if it exists.
These patch files should be applied to the kernel of the platform before
building the kernel (optional in case of a pre-built kernel).

6. mcu

Contains the MCU firmware binary and application designed to run on
T31zx to communicate with MCU over UART to enable low-power mode while
using video streaming capabilities.

7. t31zx_kernel

Contains the binary file with bootloader, Linux kernel and root
filesystem for T31zx CPU.

8. wlan-sdio

Contains the SDIO host driver for the Talaria TWO Wi-Fi module (optional
in case of SPI).

9. AWSIOT_certificates

Contains the AWS IoT certificates for MQTT connection authentication.

10. readme:

Refer the Readme file for talaria_two_dual_stack_vx.y package folder
structure. Follow individual readme files present in the sub-folders for
more information.
