Limited warranty and liability — Information in this document is
believed to be accurate and reliable. However, InnoPhase IoT
Incorporated does not give any representations or warranties, expressed
or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and
assumes no liability associated with the use of such information.
InnoPhase IoT Incorporated takes no responsibility for the content in
this document if provided by an information source outside of InnoPhase
IoT Incorporated.

InnoPhase IoT Incorporated disclaims liability for any indirect,
incidental, punitive, special or consequential damages associated with
the use of this document, applications and any products associated with
information in this document, whether or not such damages are based on
tort (including negligence), warranty, including warranty of
merchantability, warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, breach of
contract or any other legal theory. Further, InnoPhase IoT Incorporated
accepts no liability and makes no warranty, express or implied, for any
assistance given with respect to any applications described herein or
customer product design, or the application or use by any customer’s
third-party customer(s).

Notwithstanding any damages that a customer might incur for any reason
whatsoever, InnoPhase IoT Incorporated’ aggregate and cumulative
liability for the products described herein shall be limited in
accordance with the Terms and Conditions of identified in the commercial
sale documentation for such InnoPhase IoT Incorporated products.

Right to make changes — InnoPhase IoT Incorporated reserves the right to
make changes to information published in this document, including,
without limitation, changes to any specifications and product
descriptions, at any time and without notice. This document supersedes
and replaces all information supplied prior to the publication hereof.

Suitability for use — InnoPhase IoT Incorporated products are not
designed, authorized or warranted to be suitable for use in life
support, life-critical or safety-critical systems or equipment, nor in
applications where failure or malfunction of an InnoPhase IoT
Incorporated product can reasonably be expected to result in personal
injury, death or severe property or environmental damage. InnoPhase IoT
Incorporated and its suppliers accept no liability for inclusion and/or
use of InnoPhase IoT Incorporated products in such equipment or
applications and such inclusion and/or use is at the customer’s own
risk.

All trademarks, trade names and registered trademarks mentioned in this
document are property of their respective owners and are hereby
acknowledged.
