.. _Regulatory Notices/Regulatory Notice:

Regulatory Notice
===========================

**FCC/ISED Regulatory Notices**

**Note**: Users must ensure to do their own EMC and safety assessment
along with any RF spot checks as applicable while integrating Talaria
TWO modules onto their application/Host/final product.

Modification Statement
----------------------

Changes or modifications made to this equipment not expressly approved
by InnoPhase IoT, Inc. may void the FCC authorization to operate this
equipment.

Interference Statement
----------------------

This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC Rules and with Industry
Canada license-exempt RSS standard(s). Operation is subject to the
following two conditions:

1. this device may not cause harmful interference, and

2. this device must accept any interference received, including
   interference that may cause undesired operation

Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d'Industrie Canada applicables
aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L'exploitation est autorisée aux
deux conditions suivantes:

1. l'appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage, et

2. l'appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi, même
   si le brouillage est susceptible d'en compromettre le fonctionnement

Radio Frequency Radiation Exposure Statement
--------------------------------------------

This device complies with FCC/IC radiation exposure limits set forth for
an uncontrolled environment.

The device should be installed and operated with minimum distance of 20
CM between the device/antenna and all persons. This device must not be
co-located or operating in conjunction with any other antenna or
transmitter without further RF Exposure evaluation.

RF Exposure Statement for Module Integration
--------------------------------------------

Talaria TWO modules listed above have been granted modular approval for
mobile applications. Host products integrators may use the module in
their final products with the same antenna without additional FCC
certification if they meet the following conditions. Otherwise.
additional FCC approvals must be obtained.

1. The host product with the module installed must be evaluated for
   simultaneous transmission requirements

2. The user manual for the host product must clearly indicate the
   operating requirements and conditions that must be observed to ensure
   compliance with current FCC IC RF exposure guidelines.
