Evaluation & Development
========================

INP3010/3011/3012/3013/3014/3015 EVB-A Development Boards are equipped
with all the features to evaluate Talaria TWO module’s performance and
capabilities. They can be used for initial system integration and
development as well.

The SDK software package (freertos_sdk_x.y.zip) provides software APIs
with ready-to-run firmware examples to support quick evaluation and
development of MQTT/HTTP/HTTPS/AWS and AZURE IoT Cloud applications with
Talaria TWO.

It is necessary to set-up the programming environment to ensure that all
the required tools are set-up to successfully write the code, compile
and run applications on Talaria TWO.

Environment Set-up Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Linux Users 
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Install the following tools:

    - GCC and Cross Compilation tools
    - GNU Toolchain for ARM Embedded
    - Python3 and dependencies
    - OpenOCD

Eclipse users, refer: Eclipse_Setup_Linux for installing the required tools.

Windows User 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Eclipse users, refer: Eclipse_Setup_Windows for installing the required tools.

Get started by programming basic applications.

Programming
-----------

There are two ways in which Talaria TWO can be programmed for evaluation
and/or development:

    - Programmer tool (Download Tool)
    -  Command Line Interface (CLI)

Debugging
---------

For debugging an application during development, GDB is used.
For real time debugging using Linux:
    - :ref:`Debugging using GDB<Debugging using GDB>`
    - :ref:`Debugging using Coredump<Debugging using Coredump>`

For real time debugging using Windows:
    - Eclipse plugin

Memory Mapping
--------------

Talaria TWO’s flash memory layout in both development and production
phase.

    - :ref:`Memory Mapping of a Standard Application<Memory Mapping of a Standard Application>`
